---
title: 2020-06-09 7-Fit
tags: CrossFit
---

[[CrossFit Route 7]]
## Take aways

- **If there is a technical movement, do a full review and break it down**
- **Get athletes pumped up, they should want to be there.**
- **Have an extra piece in your back pocket if you have more time at the end of class. Mobility, core, etc.**

## Class Overview
Warm up
```
3 rds
10 dead bugs
5 windmills per side
1 minute bike or ski
```

Strength
```
3 sets
10 half-kneeling Db press
10 Bent over row with band
8 Push ups
Rest minute or 16 Bird Dogs
```

Metcon
```
AMRAP 10
10 dB push press /side
10 dB jump overs
10 burpees
```

## Time Breakdown

```
3 min warm up talk through
12 minutes - Warm up
3 rds 
10 dead bugs		- 1 min
5 windmills per side	- 1 min
1 minute bike or ski 	- 1 min


Total: 15 min

5 minute transition 
// planning for 5 minutes is way too long. Maybe one minute

3 minute strength talk through / demo
12 minutes - Strength
3 sets			x3
Db press 		-  30 sec?
Bent over row	- 30 sec?
Push ups		- 1 min
Rest minute 		- 1 min

5 min transition
// cut this

Total: 45 minutes

3 minute workout walk through
10 minutes - Workout

Total: 48 minutes

7 minutes left
```

## Feedback from [[Tucker Jones]]

Overviews and breakdown of the movements in each piece was good.
Good movement through class.
finding the larger faults.
good mobility finisher.

### Areas to improve

#### Technical
Use every moment for improvement.
Go over movement, then have them do it so they don't forget what it is right away.
And this way you can correct them immediately
Keep class together doing the same movement at the same time to correct form and get everyone on the same page.

Think about the flow of class. "go grab a dumbbell and a band"

If there is a technical movement, do a full review and break it down to have people moving through the pieces. For this class, I should have done a review of the dB push press. Foot position, dip / drive, etc.

#### Emotional

Make sure everyone knows each other.
If someone is new, introduce them to the class and get everyone to share their name.

Bring more energy. You have good energy and that will transfer to the athletes.
Get them pumped up, they should want to be there.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[CrossFit Route 7]: CrossFit Route 7 "CrossFit Route 7"
[Tucker Jones]: Tucker Jones "Tucker Jones"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"