---
title: CrossFit
---

CrossFit is constantly varied, function movement executed at high intensity with the end goal of increasing someones fitness and by doing so allowing individuals to maintain health throughout their life.

Fitness is measured and defined as the work capacity of an individual across time and modal domain while health is defined as fitness throughout your life.


Read more about it in my [[CrossFit L1]] notes.

## Movement Breakdown
There are 9 foundational movements that CrossFit is built upon. They are:
- Air Squat
- Front Squat
- Overhead Squat
- (Strict) Press
- Push Press
- Push Jerk
- Deadlift
- Sumo Deadlift High Pull
- Medball Clean

These are functional movements that you will find yourself doing regardless of your life situation, age, or occupation.

Training these [[Movements]] will prepare you for life.

## Coaching

I have recently started my coaching journey after 8 years of being an athlete with CrossFit. Below you will find my notes on different aspects of coaching.

A foundational piece to coaching within CrossFit (and in general!) is the progressions that you take people through to warm up as well as build the skill and body awareness necessary to perform movements with excellence.

I will be posting the progressions that I make here:

- [[Progressions]]

### Coaches Practice Evaluations

These are evaluation sessions that [[CrossFit Route 7]] hosts for it's coaches to work on the various skills to be an effective coach. In particular -- class management skills and identifying/cueing faults that athletes perform while performing the various functional movements that can be found in workouts.

- [[2020-03-27 Push Press]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[CrossFit L1]: CrossFit L1 "CrossFit L1"
[Movements]: Movements "Movements"
[Progressions]: Progressions "Progressions"
[2020-03-27 Push Press]: 2020-03-27 Push Press "2020-03-27 Push Press"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"